Hi there. I'm David Juergens i'm with the office
of educational development here at osu chs and
today's session is on navigating those item
analysis reports we send you. When students have
completed an exam we send you these nice reports
with a lot of numbers on them, but what does all
of that mean? So to help us discern some of this
information today are my colleagues from OED,
Vladimir Merisca and Brea Moore. So we have a lot
to cover. Start with our learning objectives here
so students have taken an exam we present you
with the item analysis report so the first step
is to recognize the item analysis statistics and
then secondly, we'll go into understanding how
to analyze the exam metrics and there's a lot of
statistical information in these reports. There's
everything from the p value to the point biserial.
There's something called the discrimination index,
the upper and lower 27 percent. A lot of
that plays into the other statistics here
and then something called the kr20 which takes a
look at the assessments performance as a whole,
so we'll get into all of this, And finally we'll
wrap up by identifying best practice standards for
assessing the analytics. Okay so first question is
well what's what's in it for me, or I should say,
what's in it for you because you're the one who's
creating the exams and the exam questions. So
you take a look at a particular question and the
statistics, so how do I know whether it's a good
question or not and how do i tell just by looking
at the statistics and is there more to it than
just the the p-value the the average score and
then if there is something not quite right, how do
i reconcile this? What do I know about the exam's
past with what the data is telling me about now. A
few things to keep in mind when you're evaluating
an assessment you not only want to obviously look
at the assessment's performance as a whole, you've
got a good class average and such, but you want to
look at each of the exam questions and not just
that but look at each of the distractors, as well
so you want to look at the questions how do they
perform, but then also look at the response sets
to see if there might be certain distractors that
students chose over another and why that might be.
Was the information conveyed correctly?
Was there maybe a misunderstanding?
Was this distractor perhaps the correct
answer as well? So these are things that
you want to look at. Now Examsoft has
something called a psychometrics report.
This is the mathematical statistics of each of
the questions and of the assessment overall.
Then you as faculty will be able to identify
just how the questions are performing so
without too much more of an introduction on
my part, I'm going to turn things over to my
colleague Vladimir Merisca. If you click on
the "What's the Stat" he'll give you more.